SVN: SubVersion
----------------
Svn is a centralized version control repository where we can maintain allproject realated documents and source code 
of the project.

The administrator will install svn server in the one centralized machine and all the programmer will take the permission
to access that repository.

>Svn Server(Visual Svn server)
>Svn client (tortoise svn client)

each programmer will install svn client i.e tortoies svn in our local system. 
and send a mail to the manager to give permission to access the repository.
One we get the credential to access the repository we can perform below operations...

Checkout:
--------
   The process of taking the whole project from repository to our local system is called checkout,
this process we need to done only once.

CheckIn | Commit :
------------------
When we want to move our changes code to repositoyr we need to prform commit operation
before prform commit operation we need to compare the code (diff) and check whether is there any changes in
repository or not if any changes occured then update the localsystem by taking the latest code and then 
perform commit operation.
if there is no change in repository then simply commit the code.

Add:
-----
	If we created a new file then we have to commit those file in repository before commit we have to perform add 
operation then when the file is added into the repository then commit the file.

Delete:
-------
If we found that there is a file which is not necessary then we can delete this file 
two step process.
1.first delete those file from our local system
2.then commit those delete into the repository
 then new version is added in repository 
Note:Thoughwe delete the file also the deleted file backup is also available in repository.

showlog:
---------
	This process is used to check the all commited history of repository 
who changes , when changes ,what changes, why changes..

lock:
-----
	To escape from overriding problem we perform lock operation, by which when we lock any file 
no other person can commit the changes in same file he has to wait untill unless I release the 
lock .
once I commited my changes in to repository then automatically file will be unlocked.
->rght click on file->tortoies ->get Lock

conflict:
---------
	The conflict problem is raised when we perform wrongn updation process.
if two developer make the changs in same file and same line then if we try to commit at that time 
conflict problem is raised, by which some un wanted file is generated we have to fix this 
problem explicitily(manually) by deleting those file and commit again.

revert:
-------
	Revert operation is a process by which we can return back to one version to another version.
those previous version will comes as a new version.

we can reverting a perticular version.



Svn with IDE:
------------
Goto marketplace and install subclipse plugin for svn client. after installation 
import -> check svncheckout -> give the trunk url -> next-> then project will 
download to our local system

when we want to check-in operation then 
 rightclick on project-> team->synchronize with repository
 
 Then change the prospective
 
 there is 4 operaton
 
 1.incomming mode
 2.outgoing mode
 3.incoming/outgoing mode
 4.conflicts mode
--------------------------------------- 
There are three branch is available
1.trunk ->(developer environment)
2.branches->(UAT env)
3.tag		->(Prod env ){M & O} maintainance and operations













